Visualizations:
Most popular artists on reddit vs most popular artists on charts
Sentiment of artists on reddit vs metacritic scores
Sentiment of artists on reddit and popularity of artists
Artist popularity over time

Results:
Artists discussed on hip hop forums are generally more highly rated.
Artists rise and fall.
What do people on reddit talk about.
What do people search google for. How does this compare to more hardcore fans.
What do hardcore hiphop fans talk about on more niche forums.

ML:
textblob sentiment analysis

r/hiphheads vs mainstream audience:
Google trends show how niche Chance The Rapper and Frank Ocean are compared
to those that do well on the Billboard Charts.

Based on the top 1000 posts of all time, we can document the most influential
hip hop events to r/hiphopheads since 2012.
Kendrick Lamar albums: TPAB, DAMM., Kanye West album: TLAP

People on r/hiphopheads talk about highly rated albums more than about
popular albums. Kendrick Lamar, Run the Jewels, A Tribe Called Quest, Vince
Staples all had some of the highest rated rap albums, which generated much
discussion about the artist.

Unique artists:
The balance between rap and r&b. The unique popularity of Frank Ocean.

Gender Bias:
Beyonce, Nicki Minaj, Rihanna, Janelle Monae, Erykah Badu
show up less than expected.

Sentiment:
Artist average sentiment not very correlated with artist metacritic score.
For example, Kendrick Lamar has avg score of .12 much less than a typical
artist.
Album sentiment related to album metacritic score. To Pimp a Butterfly has
a score of 0.2, DAMN. only has a score of about 0.11. Why? Many comments were
comparing the album to a previous work. The titles in DAMN. are much more
negative than in his previous work ("Blood", "Lust").


Even though Drake dominates the charts
("Drake currently makes up 13% of the Billboard Hot 100"),
he does not have the impact that Kendrick Lamar, who releases less songs
but more highly rated material does.

Data:
r/hiphopheads
Billboard Charts
Rap Genius
Spotify ?

Problem:
How can we measure the impact of music artists?

Idea:
Use social media and conventional methods to help us better understand the
popularity/influence of musicians.

Methodology:
Use social media and conventional methods to help us better understand the
popularity/influence of musicians.
Identify hip hop communities on the web.
See how these communities differ from the mainstream.
We assume that the mainstream audience has not changed to much.

Challenges:
Collecting data. Few structured APIs. Artist names all in different
formats, data must be cleaned.

Sentiment analysis imperfect - words like nasty, disgusting are not
always used in a negative light (see Kendrick Lamar DNA).

Results:
Artists being discussed by avid hip hop listeners and content creators
do not necessarily have to be popular mainstream. For example, Frank Ocean,
Chance The Rapper, and Young Thug are artists with few hit singles that
are widely popular on forums.

The score of a discussion post about an
album is very related to how well received by critics and users an album
is received. The highest rated albums on Metacritic all generated much
attention for their artists on both forums. 

Female artists are rarely discussed.

Rise of trap artists, 2011- (billboard) late 2015- (reddit)

Geographic hubs:
Atlanta (Migos, Future, Young Thug),
New York (Desiigner, A$AP Mob),
Chicago (Kanye West, Chance The Rapper, Jeremih),
LA (...)

Sentiment analysis - album rating correlated to sentiment polarity of
reddit comments
















